OSDOCS#4029: Filtering a FBC image (#60519)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/olm-filtering-fbc.adoc

For more information about the oc-mirror plugin and this use case, see the "Keeping your mirror registry content updated" section, and specifically the "Pruning images" subsection, of "Mirroring images for a disconnected installation using the oc-mirror plugin".
====

.Prerequisites

* `opm` CLI.
* `podman` version 1.9.3+.
* A file-based catalog image.
* A catalog directory structure recently initialized on your workstation related to this catalog. If you do not have one, create the directory and generate the Dockerfile by following the "Initialize the catalog" step from the "Creating a file-based catalog image" procedure.

.Procedure

. Extract the contents of the catalog image in YAML format to an `index.yaml` file in your catalog directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ opm render <registry>/<namespace>/<catalog_image_name>:<tag> \
    -o yaml > <catalog_dir>/index.yaml
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Alternatively, you can use the `-o json` flag to output in JSON format.
====

. Modify the contents of the resulting `index.yaml` file to remove one or more Operator packages.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> After a bundle has been published in a catalog, assume that one of your users has installed it. Therefore, avoid stranding users that have that version installed by making sure that all previously published bundles in a catalog have an update path to the current or newer channel head.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a bundle has been published in a catalog, assume that one of your users has installed it. Ensure that all previously published bundles in a catalog have an update path to the current or newer channel head to avoid stranding users that have that version installed .
```
This phrasing is a little clearer to me. WDYT?

====
+

> The following example shows a set of `olm.package`, `olm.channel`, and `olm.bundle` blobs that represent an Operator package to remove from the file:

Reviewer 2: This sentence reads ambiguously for me.  Are we removing a package?  Some subset of the child elements of a package?

If we're removing an entire package, maybe something like
```
The following example lists the set of `olm.package`, `olm.channel`, and `olm.bundle` blobs which will be removed when we remove the Operator package from the catalog.
```

schema: olm.channel
---
image: example.com/example-inc/example-operator-bundle@sha256:<digest>
name: example-operator.v2.7.0
package: example-operator
properties:
- type: olm.gvk
  value:
    group: example-group.example.io
    kind: MyObject
    version: v1alpha1
- type: olm.gvk
  value:
    group: example-group.example.io
    kind: MyOtherObject
    version: v1beta1
- type: olm.package
  value:
    packageName: example-operator
    version: 2.7.0
- type: olm.bundle.object
  value:
    data: <base64_string>
- type: olm.bundle.object
  value:
    data: <base64_string>
relatedImages:
- image: example.com/example-inc/example-related-image@sha256:<digest>
  name: example-related-image
schema: olm.bundle
---
----
====

. Save your changes to the `index.yaml` file.

. Validate the catalog:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ opm validate <catalog_dir>
----

. Rebuild the catalog:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman build . \
    -f <catalog_dir>.Dockerfile \
    -t <registry>/<namespace>/<catalog_image_name>:<tag>
----

. Push the updated catalog image to a registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman push <registry>/<namespace>/<catalog_image_name>:<tag>
----

.Verification

> . In the web console, navigate to the OperatorHub configuration resource in the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* -> *Configuration* page and update or add the catalog source to use the pull spec for your updated catalog image.

Reviewer 2: "update or add the catalog source"
Does this need add'l reference, or is it well-understood by the audience. 

nit:  I find the interlaced clauses to be a bit more challenging when reading, and prefer something like
```and add the catalog source or update the existing catalog source to use the pull spec for your updated catalog image.
```
